Okay, so one of the first command I have ever learned
about was the command watch.
Now, it's kind of self-explanatory.
You watch another command, you give it a command-like
string and keep running it over and over again.
And I found it like really easy to use, very accessible, and
kind of like my cheat way of doing sysops.
Anyway, so, let's see, I have this curl command and
I wanna check that the rate limit is working.
So, when I run the curl, I'm passing this -I,
which means, show me just the headers.
And over here we've got X-RateLimit, the limit, the
remaining and the reset.
Now, every time you head over to buy the terminal training,
it hits an API endpoint that I wrote to work out
the tax, to work out whether the VAT ID that you've given
is valid and calculates all that sort of stuff.
I wanted to check that the actual numbers were correct.
So, I have this curl command.
But, just running it over and over manually is no good,
so I want to add it into watch.
So what I can do is...
I'm just gonna clear the screen.
Right at the beginning here, gonna type watch and then
everything else afterwards.
And it will just re-run that entire command over and over
and over for me.
So, there's a few things going on here.
Firstly, the title, which is the very top line.
This is a watch title.
So what it's saying is it's running every two seconds.
Here is a complete command I gave it and
over on the side is a timestamp.
So, if I kinda want to refer to that, if there's
something else I'm looking at.
Timestamp is not particularly useful here because
I'm looking at all this stuff here.
And then I've got junk here, which I don't really want.
It's actually coming from the curl.
So I'm gonna go back to the command line and I am going to
just do dash S.
And that means do a side curl.
Okay, so that's better.
Now what we can see is the timestamp here that the
servers returning is updating, right?
So you can see that the request is actually changing.
Now, it might not be completely obvious particularly
if I kind of move away from the page and come back again,
that's what's changed.
So there's this really neat little argument that I can
give it, which is dash, oops, watch dash D.
Alright?
So dash d will show the differences.
So we see the only characters changed since last request
is this one.
Okay and you can see as each new request comes in,
it's saying that this character hasn't changed anymore.
So it's showing me new changes between each request,
so it's like, you know, looking at the difference,
rather than showing me all the changes over time,
which I can also do, alright?
So, this is where It comes in useful.
I'm going to run this command again and to show you
what I'm looking for.
So I wanna go to this page and hit refresh.
Go to here and we see it change, but it immediately
goes blank again because the subsequent request,
there's no differences between the point where there
were only 2218 remaining.
So, we want consistent differences.
Right, so, control C out of here.
Go back to watch.
And we're gonna do persistent, just gonna paste that in.
Differences equals.
Permanent rather, not persistent.
So, I run that again, okay.
Go back to my webpage, hit refresh, that's hitting
the API.
We'll see the changes, and it will stay changed
as the timestamp moves forward.
Right, so I can see, maybe if I leave this page,
this screen for awhile, that this is what actually
changed and that it did work.
There's a few extra arguments that you can give to
watch which I find are actually really helpful,
really handy.
If I don't want this title across the top,
I can get rid of it using dash T.
Right, so if I do watch dash dash help,
I get all of the arguments that we're looking at here.
So dash T gets rid of the title and the blank line
at the bottom.
And actually here, I wanna just grep
for the RateLimit stuff.
I don't want any of the old stuff.
So, if I wanna grep, I take my curl command, right?
So let's just take that curl command and pipe to grep
and then X rate.
Alright, cause it stops at X rate, so that would work.
Go back to the watch command and gonna do
pipe grep X-Rate.
And, doesn't really work the way I expect.
And the problem is, what's happening is it's taking
the watch command and it's piping that to grep, but
watch hasn't finished running so it's doing quiet work.
What I want I do is take the whole curl command and
the grep together and run that in watch, so I need to
put quotes around that.
Alright, so I'm gonna put double quotes around
the whole thing.
Now, when I run it, I get the bit I'm interested in.
Okay?
So, hit refresh.
You should see, yep, number changes, perfect.
Now what if I actually wanna say, when that changes
do something?
Watch has got my back on that one as well.
So, I go back to the arguments here and if I do
dash G, that will exit when there is a change.
And if it exits I can say and and I can do afplay, yeah.
So I'm gonna say play little audio ding when the watch
detects a change.
So just gonna watch at the moment.
I go off to the webpage.
And you know, I'm doing something and I refresh the page.
And there's the ding, right?
So, I can use it to trigger different things.
Now, you know the afplay is specific to my mac,
but the watch command...
On a mac you may not have it and on the other machines,
Linux and Windows, you may not have it installed
by default.
On a mac you can just do brew instal watch and
you'll get the watch command.
On windows and Linux, if you're using Windows Ubuntu
Set up system you can do apt instal, sorry,
apt get instal watch.
It's always worth just typing in watch just to see
if you have the command in the first place.
But yeah, first command I learned or learnt, and
really, really, quite - I would go to it a lot.
I'd use it for a lot of different things.
It was my quick and dirty solution to pretty much
anything where I wanted to just keep requesting
the thing.
You can even use watch to date,
even though it's there twice.
So, yeah, cool.